have you ever lived through a crisis
maybe that was 2008 who knows could have
been 1929 but in this video we are going
to talk about the differences between
what happened in a financial crisis like
2008 and 2020 very different
circumstances but we can take
information from both of those to
understand what's happening today and
what we can expect in the coming years
why do we want that well because when we
unveil the truth that allows us to both
Thrive and prosper during these
uncertain times so that's what I want to
do for you today knowing this
information will make you better
prepared for what's already going on so
the first thing is to look at what
happened in 2008 I'm sure you've
probably if not read the books about it
you've maybe seen the the movies about
that the big short and so on and that
gives us a little bit of information
I've read countless books about that and
of course the Great Depression as well
and everything in between when we look
at that yes there are some similarities
but we need to look at why these things
happened knowing that it's not going to
be exactly the same every time but what
can we learn from it so back in 2008
what happened well we had a financial
crisis this started really because of
these Financial firms and what they
tried to do with mortgages
mortgage-backed Securities so they
created all this financial Wizardry and
that became real crazy you know it right
they use these mortgage-backed
Securities and started creating
derivatives that nobody understood it
doesn't matter because it's real estate
it's Diversified and we never had a
problem well of course that was a big
problem you had job losses as a result
of this there was some serious increase
in unemployment that not only affected
the financial industry or the real
estate industry it was why spread we
also had an asset deflation so you saw
the prices of stocks and you saw real
estate as well you might say wait a
second how could the stock market Fall
if this was subprime how could that be
that real estate would fall all over the
entire United States if
it's just you know derivatives
mortgage-backed Securities and subprime
mortgages and how could it not only
affect the United States but places like
Dubai yeah it went all the way out
that's what occurred that was the
history
um you got this business cycle that
happens throughout these periods 2008 is
just one where we have of course oh
things are getting way too hot after
years and years and years of low
interest rates or at least at that time
was really low well now we've gotten a
little too hot let's start increasing
interest rates and let's do it too slow
and not acknowledge the fact that we
created what Alan Greenspan acknowledged
he called it the irrational exuberance
oh yeah well you kind of enabled that
right I mean isn't that very clear these
people don't care about you these people
these Bankers those in the establishment
they really do not care about your best
interest you could vote anybody in you
want it doesn't really matter because
the circumstances we're dealing with
right now are part of a business cycle
and that is the increase interest rates
to punish you in one way they decrease
them to punish you in a different way
and they keep doing this over and over
again creating this cycle intentionally
so that they can enrich themselves it is
very clear and documented
in 2020 it's different
2020 was a very short I mean going by
their statistics was a very short
recession we had Mass fear that was
going on the lockdowns of course they
stopped the economy they put it on hold
and they said everything's got to be
shut down but then the stock market went
down and went right back up in a v-shape
not all stocks but in general went down
went back up the economy did not open up
like that but that certainly happened to
the stock market you had a highly
inflationary environment back in 2020
different than what happened in 2008 it
took a while it took years for Real
Estate to come back up and then exceed
where it was before right but in 2020 oh
no it went down and it went right back
up like crazy it was wild why because
the money was being thrown out there
it's so you see the difference yes of
course they did qe1 then they did QE2
and three
but what we experienced in 2020 was
unlike that other situation because they
had no purpose there was no real good
excuse to print the money that they did
in 2020 there really wasn't yeah you
could have argued the stimulus checks
for people and so on but did they need
to go out there and buy the
mortgage-backed Securities do all that
quantitative easing absolutely not
because that recession was super short
by any metric and so you look at that
and have to say wait a second is this
really just part of a contrived business
cycle at least that one aspect of it
okay and we have these external factors
we got the lockdowns and so on so
there's a lot that was happening in 2020
that was different than 2008 but still
it creates a response from the
government as they call it the fiscal
side and then there's the monetary site
which comes from the Central Bank in
this case the Federal Reserve they pump
out the cash all right then we have that
not all recessions are equal so we have
to be prepared for any circumstance but
we have the writing on the wall right
now today and we know that as of now
it seems that asset prices are super
high and it's with a tightening that's
going on
so that reminds us that the next
circumstance
it's all we are already in a tightening
cycle and still asset prices are high so
even if we were to come down
significantly the next change the next
situation would be more inflation
that's what we can expect I think it's
really important to address that and I'm
going to expand on that further here
today I know there's this argument of
deflation and inflation but right now as
of now have we seen any deflation
where is it is it in this room with us
right now
I can't find it
maybe it is maybe I just can't see it
remember my I know I I need glasses to
read so maybe maybe that's what it is
what are the current conditions
inflation right now today
consumers are having trouble
asset prices are at or near record highs
in many cases and the jobs Market is
still tight all of these things put
together show us that this is a highly
inflationary environment that even by
increasing interest rates to a level
they have not been at for many many
years is still not enough to push this
down we need a basically catastrophic
event to take this down the biggest
worry I have is that we only come down a
small percentage and then they fire it
up again like they did in 2020. imagine
we get a repeated pattern with asset
prices where yeah they did fall
certainly but they throw more inflation
at it and prices of homes go on average
from let's say a million to one million
five to two million what if the stock
market went from let's just say four
thousand to six thousand seven thousand
these things are going to be devastating
for people because then they're just
completely out of it they have no chance
the middle class has no chance deflation
would be helpful
but it doesn't seem like the central
banks and the policy makers want to
create a circumstance where we can
experience deflation a healthy detox
there's so many people out there
that will do intermittent fasting right
give my body a rest you would say that
you look at animals when they're sick
what do they do they just lie down they
just rest they don't eat they don't do
anything they just lie down they're
resting but for the you know the central
banks they say oh you know what you need
you know what you need you need more
money it's like Oprah Winfrey is
controlling the whole thing you get a
new car you get a new car you get a new
car it's unbelievable you can't do that
and have it make any sense in terms of
stability it's just not going to happen
all right so what can you expect well we
can see deflation of ultra risk assets
so anything like a Dogecoin or something
people are gonna sell that off that's
the first thing that gets sold off not
picking on Dogecoin but you know what
I'm trying to say all right it's that
when there's you know people are really
just gambling on something they're
speculating on something that's the
first thing they'll pull their money out
I'm gonna put it somewhere safer and so
they'll do that and so there are other
assets that will benefit as a result of
that okay when we have difficulty in the
whole crypto space
uh you know there's ah there's this new
coin this new coin that new coin this
dog coin this meme coin money will lead
that and it will go into the stable
coins or it will go into Bitcoin
that's just one example
but the same thing applies to basically
all of their asset classes money leaves
the speculative stocks and it goes into
where there is value where there is
stability different circumstance right
okay and then uh you could see that we
go into the underserved markets as a
result okay so money leaves the the
craziness it goes to the underserved
markets
you know companies and businesses and so
on light to safe havens maybe that's
going to be considered US dollar maybe
that's going to be considered gold maybe
that would be real estate it all depends
and we have the immediate reaction from
the fed and the government that means
more money printing more stimulus you
know the drill not good is my opinion
um you could see the assumption that
companies will lay off we don't know
we really don't know how they're going
to do so during these times right now
they're not laying off a lot of people
yes there have been layoffs I
acknowledge that but overall overall
when you look at the jobs Market it's
still pretty tight and so they don't
want to lay off people because they know
how difficult it was to attract people
in the first place and so they're trying
they're just trying to keep people but
ultimately they're going towards AI
automation robotics they're trying to
get rid of people that's the long-term
goal inflationary policies begin to
boost up prices and cause further wealth
Gap that's the goal that's the goal for
the central Bankers they're going to do
that they are doing that and each and
every cycle people are dumbfounded how
did this happen just pay attention just
read the history I've done it
all right spot the differences in the
Cycles we don't have the same problems
from 2008 we have different issues
absolutely there's no question about
that and you'll see that from time to
time where you know there are some
similarities but no that it is different
fundamentally that doesn't mean you
can't have a crisis and that doesn't
mean hey look we're not going to have a
crisis in real estate because
um you know mortgage-backed Securities
aren't what they were we don't have the
same pattern now that's not the way it
works okay that's just an asset class
a hundred a thousand million different
things could affect it but know that you
know we got to pay attention to the data
that would tell us one way or another if
it's in trouble
all right
any time uh we take excessive risk and
are rewarded we will then this is like
people in general we will then double
down in a pavlovian response and we'll
get burned as a result so what does that
mean if we were to go to the casino and
we bet on black we say I'm going to
throw it I'm going to throw my whole
paycheck on black let's go let's let's
do it and we win
oh wow amazing how fantastic is this you
know and then you go in again oops lost
it all all right I know a friend of mine
who who went there he bet it all on I
think it was red and it came up and it
came up he uh basically uh didn't get it
didn't get it he said okay I'm gonna do
it again I'm gonna do it again I'm gonna
do it again he did it six times in a row
and he lost six times in a row so don't
just think that you know what you're
gonna respond with my friend lost a lot
of money in that case there and he was
gambling he was speculating not a good
idea so that's what I'm trying to say
all right watch the actions of Banks and
central banks very close this is
extremely important what they are doing
right now is by far the keys if you pay
attention to this channel if you
subscribe right now or hit that Thumbs
Up Button yeah you're gonna support me
you're going to help with the algorithm
and so on but you're also going to be
notified of of the actions every single
important action of the central banks
and the banks okay big big stuff last
rate hike could be seen as bullish so if
the Central Bank the Federal Reserve
says this is probably going to be our
last rate hike given everything I think
this is it that starts a bullish Trend
so you'll be notified of that on this
channel okay and then we have nobody has
all the answers but fundamentals remain
true okay know that to be the case the
fundamentals will always remain true it
takes some time sometimes it's like hey
maybe maybe this time is different and
then you get smacked in the face and
that's never a good thing okay because
that that might leave a mark what I want
to say to you is that there are
differences between 2008 and 2020 and
guess what the next time around it's
going to be different but we know that
there are risks being taken today we
know where the cracks are appearing we
know that the actions and in the end of
all whatever the linchpin is and that's
pulled whatever crisis we encounter the
end result is more inflation knowing
that having that information for you
what would you do what were the actions
that you would take that's a question
that's not rhetorical
I want to know if you think if you know
that these central banks the Federal
Reserve in this case is going to
eventually print more money devalue your
currency your hard-earned savings
getting burned what will you do some
people purchase real assets
other people are taking this and they're
starting to shift their money they're
saying I don't want any part of this
anymore I'm moving my money over here
others are using it they're buying solar
panels they're buying you know
geothermal they're buying the 3D
printers they're buying big Gardens and
greenhouses they are shifting they're
rapidly devaluing dollars currencies
paper Fiat and they are transferring
that into something that retains value
for years and years to come
what actions are you taking today I'd
love to know and I'll see on the next
one take care